# The Impact of Education Technology on High School Teachers: A Comprehensive Study in the Heart of Los Angeles County

## Introduction

In the past few decades, technology has truly become an integral part of modern society. As science and technology continue to advance, use cases for technology continue to expand throughout the world, playing an extremely dominant role in every sphere of life. Technology has allowed for some extremely revolutionary changes in communication, allowing someone to connect with someone halfway across the globe within a few taps. Despite affecting all sorts of fields of expertise, its potential impact on education continues to open up new possibilities to acquire knowledge through digital means. Reliance on digital learning platforms, integrated sets of interactive online services that provide educators and students information, tools, and resources for educational purposes, continues to strengthen to this day, especially due to the recent COVID-19 pandemic.

With COVID-19 affecting people across the world, especially in the United States, digital learning platforms, also known as education technology, are all the more relevant now than before. Tens of thousands of schools have turned to the integration of distance learning, forcing them to incorporate technology tools to be their primary mode of educational instruction. Some of the prominent digital learning platforms being utilized today include Zoom, Canvas, Google Meet, Gradescope, Google Classroom, Google Drive, Quizlet, Microsoft Office, etcetera. Due to this heavier reliance on electronics due to a global pandemic, students began to face unprecedented challenges, leading many to dramatically alter their learning style and techniques and pushing them to reestablish focus on furthering their education amidst a long period of uncertainty. While this shift affected students to a great extent, online education has provided even larger challenges for most educators too, especially considering a majority of education professionals and teachers are not experienced in leveraging technology for their job, and they may have not received the proper training to conduct learning through this new medium. As a result of this unique predicament, this study will be exploring in great detail how local high school teachers perceive this newfound reliance on education technology. Pre-existing research has indeed investigated how accepting educators are of online learning technology or the effects of integrating this technology on the attitudes of teachers, but this study in particular is interested in understanding educators’ perceptions in a technologically reliant setting at a local high school in the heart of Los Angeles County, especially after the new wave of education technology use introduced by the recent pandemic.

## Methodology

In terms of methodology and fine details, this study followed a primarily quantitative approach. Data was collected through a descriptive online survey. The survey asked participants (teachers) to rate to what degree each statement presented relates to them using a Likert scale ranging from 1 to 5. Since the participants’ thoughts, opinions, and feelings were self-reported through this system, it allowed the researcher to investigate how they truly feel about this complete reliance on education technology through introspection and self-analysis.

Through the use of the three-part online survey, the researcher planned on investigating the following subproblems:

- Do certain subject teachers perceive education technology in a significantly negative or positive way than others?
- How do these teachers perceive their own competencies in education technology?
- How do these teachers perceive their students’ usage of education technology and its impact on their learning?
- Are certain subject teachers more or less optimistic about the continual use of education technology in the future?

The subjects were high school teachers from every subject department. This included the departments of Mathematics, English, Social Studies, and Science. This demographic of participants was chosen primarily because teachers are the most important constituents in determining the prevalence of education technology for the future so their viewpoints on its impact are most valuable to assess. Also, teachers from a variety of subject departments or specializations were chosen to analyze potential trends in perception of education technology depending on how and what they interact with daily for their teaching jobs, along with an attempt to reduce potential skewness or extreme data deviation.

## Hypothesis

In order to further investigate trends in the discussion of findings, a hypothesis was established to allow for deeper analysis and prove common generalizations or predictions. The initial hypothesis was that science, mathematics, and technology subject teachers will end up having a more positive perception of the education technology experience during a Distance Learning education model. This could be because these specialized teachers could have more experience with education technology prior to the COVID-19 pandemic or they could simply exhibit more natural interest in the technological field as technology is ultimately a science.

## Procedures

First, a rather large sample of teachers was randomly chosen by assigning each teacher from a subject department a number and choosing five to ten numbers through a random generation calculation. After receiving a signed informed consent form from the teachers chosen, the online survey was sent out to collect data on their perceptions. To ensure that the most accurate data was collected, the teachers needed to take this online survey on a weekday when their utilization of education technology is high. This survey was split into five sections (correlated with the subproblems identified earlier in the “Study Design” section), each with at least ten questions/statements along with a general assessment of the technological equipment at their remote workplaces. After receiving all survey responses, the participants were thanked for their time and given their incentive.

## Results & Discussion

After collecting quantitative data from the survey, a total of 29 teachers opted to participate in this study. Of these, 10 teachers specialized in Mathematics, 6 in English, 7 in Science, and 6 in Social Science. To understand specific trends between the subject specialization and technology perceptions amongst the teachers, all data collected from the survey were compiled into a .CSV file to be parsed using a Python program (leveraging the Pandas package).

Three main conditional probabilities that were calculated for each of the four subject specializations were:

- Probability of teachers having high confidence in their tech capabilities given their subject specialization.
- Probability of teachers viewing technology as having a positive impact on students given their subject specialization.
- Probability of teachers being optimistic about the increased reliance on education technology given their subject specialization.

Referring back to the hypothesis made earlier (that science and mathematics teachers will have a more positive perception of education technology reliance due to more experience before COVID-19 and more interest in the technological field), this study's results actually drift from that claim. English teachers were most likely to show the highest level of confidence in their technological competencies with a probability of 84.5% based on the conditional probabilities calculated (Table 1 in Appendix). Math teachers were close with a probability of 82.9%. The surprising result was that Science teachers were the least likely to show the highest level of confidence in their technology skills with a low probability of 65.3%. This begins to prove one of the hypotheses slightly wrong already. While Math teachers are still fairly optimistic regarding their confidence in technology skills, Science teachers do not match that, suggesting that perhaps STEM subject specialization may not have as much to do with teachers’ comfort with technology. 

Regarding these teachers’ perceptions of how positively education technology is impacting students, all subject teachers were generally not very optimistic. Once again, English teachers showed the highest confidence in technology’s ability to positively impact students and their learning with 33.3% confidence. The Math and Science teachers both came in with about 27% confidence in technology’s ability to positively influence their students. This also strays slightly from the
